Hello and welcome back to the course on testing and optimization This is Carol Manco and I'm adding
this bonus video to the course in October 2015.
I hope you're going really well off the course so far you're enjoying the videos and having lots of
fun.
And what I wanted to share today is a use case for the genetic algorithm in meditative form.
Now we've already talked about the genetic algorithm and we know how it works but how can we use it
to really really boost our algorithmic trading system optimization process.
So today I'll show you one of the ways I use the algorithmic genetic algorithm in miniature form.
So what am I got here in front of me.
Well here I've got some optimization which I was running overnight and if I go to the settings this
expert adviser actually has a lot of parameters and I was optimizing over 20 of them and the number
of combinations for that optimization is indicated over here.
So you can see that it's not.
This is thousands this is millions.
This is billions.
This is trillions.
This is quadrillions and this is a quintillion So there's a quintillion over a quintillion all possible
combination of the parameters that I'm optimizing.
And as you can imagine you would need a supercomputer to get through all of these in brute force and
even after you'd get all through all of them you would still have so much resultset then you would need
another optimization to optimize the results of the first optimization.
So that would be pretty insane.
And this is where the genetic algorithm comes in handy.
So as you can see the genetic algorithm really reduces the number of iterations it has to go through
and I am able to still optimize on the every tick model.
And now if I go to the optimization graph what have I done here will I've actually run four separate
optimizations for the same expert adviser.
But every single time I've used the genetic algorithm.
And what does that allow me to do.
Well let me let me explain a picture actually.
So why do I run four separate genetic algorithms at the same time.
Why don't I just limit myself to one.
Well let's say in a multidimensional space.
These are all of the parameters that are all of the sets of parameters that the supervisor can have
the ones that were up to us.
I know this is a bit of this is my drawing so I'm very proud of it.
I know it's a bit it looks a bit unprofessional I would say but let's benefit that's the best I could
do in pain too if a mouse.
Anyway so these are this is a multidimensional space where we have all of the parameters that the sexpert
of us can possibly have.
So how does the generic algorithm work.
So it starts somewhere.
Let's say one of them that say that top one that we just looked at on the right is so-so here.
Right.
And then it goes OK.
Let's let me randomly try this parameter.
OK that is better so I'm going to go this way.
I'm going to go this way I'm going to go this way.
OK that wasn't good so I'm going to I'm actually going to go this way this way this way this way this
way and it gets somewhere and through those 10000 sets that it runs it gets somewhere and it's like
OK so that's probably the best one.
That's the second best one.
That's the third best one and so on.
So you have some sets to choose from.
Then you go.
So but the thing with the generic algorithm here is that it's limited so because it originally randomly
chose to go this way and then this way and this way this is this way it's never going to actually look
through these sets or here or you'll never actually see these ones because they're too far away.
Think of it in terms of evolution like the human species right.
It went this way this way this way.
Like maybe those Neanderthals or parallel there was homo sapiens and eventually we ended up of homo
sapiens.
But you would never see a human evolve into a giraffe.
Right.
So if you go to a giraffe here or a human evolve into a tree or you know saw some other form of life
we're here because completely completely different revolutionary pathways and it's too far away to ever
happen.
But you know maybe what you looking for in this particular case is a giraffe not a human.
So that's why I'm running for you like I'm not going to get everything obviously because there's way
too many these Quintilian but we're for I'm quadrupling my chances of getting what I want.
So let's say the second one will run from here it will randomly start here and it'll go here we go here
to go here and go here and it all intellectually can go this way this way this way this way this way
this way or this way he'll come here.
So then I'll say OK.
So this is actually the best set and maybe this is the second best.
This is the third best best and so on.
Let's have a look another one and then maybe this one will start here and then it will go like that
.
I like that like that like that.
I like that like that.
I don't know.
Somewhere.
Maybe it'll end up back here and they'll say this was the best set.
This was the second best third best kind of you get the picture so I'll just roll the fourth one for
completeness sake.
So maybe it started here then went this way this way this way this way this way this way and then it
actually went on the same pathway and it found this one to be the best second best and maybe third best
.
Right.
So by having four genetic algorithms running at the same time I'm really improving increasing the chances
of finding diverse parameters so this one one genetic algorithm which you'll find is it generally Once
it finds a profitable way like it sees that.
OK so maybe stop loss of thirty six is profitable.
I'm going to stick to stop loss of.
It will rarely jump away from personal growth through 755.
But then you'll see that there is six kind of a local extrem.
It's a local maximum and I'll stick to it.
And in the end everything that this genetic algorithm was optimizing will or more of the parameters
will be with a stop loss of 36 whereas maybe you're not interested or you're more you know you want
a higher Stop-Loss.
That's why when you run for maybe this genetic algorithm will actually find a stop loss of 72 or 84
or whatever.
And that way you will be optimizing around a 4 which can also be a local extremum ad but they will never
cross because this is a local extremum and this is a local extremum a local maximum for the stop all
it's it yields the profit a maximum of profit.
Around that stop loss and this stop loss yields and Maximov profit are on that supply.
So if you visualize the graph or let's say Stop-Loss since we're talking about it that's a let's draw
in another color so probably let's do what have we not done yet.
Orange right.
So if you got this is your profit and I apologize for the very very ugly joinings that's your profit
and that's your stop loss.
Maybe you've got your stop loss like around what did we say.
Thirty six right.
That's your profit goes up.
And then it's like like it's pretty low pretty low.
And then all right.
So let's say you're 36 here you're 84 is over there.
So that genetic algorithm the green on what it found was at 36 is good and it tried to go left to try
to go this way try to go that way but it found that 36 is really good and we're going to stick with
86.
And what the other one followed the red one was it found that 84 is actually really good because it
randomly started closer to 84 and it couldn't find anything better.
Around 84 so it'll stick to 84 and that's how the genetic algorithm works so if you just launch one
you might find yourself stuck at one of these local extremisms for profit and not being able to find
other parameters.
That's why personally I prefer to launch a couple of genetic algorithms at the same time.
In this case you saw four of them running that's what I normally do because for me I've calculated for
maximizes my utilization of my machine my computer so I can launch it overnight and because I don't
need the computer it can all completely be dedicated to optimization.
And that way all of the research resources are utilized if I launch five.
Kind of like they're sharing and the optimization won't be complete by morning or or the computer will
crash.
So one of the one of the two things will happen.
So there you go that is why I run for genetic algorithms at the same time and that is one of the use
cases for genetic algorithms.
And just to you know have a look at the results.
You can see here that the starting balls was 10000 and you can see that the genetic algorithm did a
great job.
It it increased from like some some of them went down.
So what we saw in that lovely picture that I drew some of them went down and then went up.
But generally you can see this curve is going up.
So this is the final balance on the count.
And you can see that overall it is like it got me two results where I can be earning 17000 or you can
be earning $7000 and this is the period of 36 six days.
Right so 36 days.
And this expert Yser conducts maybe about Ideally I wanted to conduct over 100 trades in 36 days but
that's a completely different story you know that's my preferences and you know statistical significance
and things like that.
What we're talking about here is genetic algorithm and you can see that in this case it got up to $7200
a profiteer six thousand eight hundred.
Here is about six maybe about $7000 a profit here is about 6000.
What is it about another 7000.
And you know then I will go into the results and I will look through all of these parameters and look
through all of them and I'll be like OK so what am I interested in.
All right so my interest in maximum profit they are.
So they go seven thousand five hundred.
Right.
That's the total trade.
Those of you who know me well know that probably you might go for total trades right.
I will go for total trade I'll be OK.
So even there's less profit here and a higher drawdown.
But I can see that there's more total trade so I will still investigate that one because for me it is
more statistically significant.
But once again that's a whole different story.
The the main the main takeaway from here is that the generic algorithm works works pretty well.
And but if you don't want to get stuck in a local extremum of one of the or multiple of your parameters
if you don't explore a biro just like a diverse range of options then a way to solve that problem is
to look at several genetic algorithms running in peril and make machines make sure that they don't crash
your machine.
So there we go that's all for us for today.
Hope you're enjoying the course and hope you continue enjoying the course.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy trading